---
layout: page
title: About
permalink: /about/
nav_order: 1000
---

Disclaimer:  
Kani World is an evolving NFT game. All NFTs and tokens connected to the game
are player-owned game items and not an investment. The game is constantly
developing, and you might encounter problems or errors. While I will attempt to
fix these problems, there is no guarantee to be compensated for any loss. Kani
World currently relies on Discord, and changes from Discord may make the game
unplayable. The game assets require the Algorand blockchain, and downtime to
the blockchain may impact the playability of the game. Finally, all NFTs
purchased are for playing the game in its current state. Purchasing a Kani does
not guarantee future developments.

# Mission Statement
To provide an enjoyable and rewarding game experience and to build a
cooperative community that is rewarding for all members. 

# Project Summary
Recently, in the fictitious waters of the Algorand universe, some crabs have
appeared. These interesting tiny crabs are called “Kani” (pronounced ‘ca’ as in
a car with the ‘r’ and knee). The Kani World, which these crabs come from,
consists of four regions, and one Queen Kani rules over each of these four
regions. From time to time, the queens look for a king during the Kani
Generating Event (KGE). They will pick one male Kani to be the King, but that
Kani must first survive on the battlefield where the eligible male Kani battle
it out for a chance to be King.

A combination of Kani attributes, such as their striking and wrestling skills,
combined with random luck, will decide which male will get to be King Kani.
When these male Kani are not fighting on the battlefield, they spend their days
scavenging for “scum”. The Kani can use the scum to temporarily increase
specific attributes before the KGE. Thus giving them a slight advantage to
become King Kani.

Being King Kani is short-lived but has its rewards. The King is only the King
until the beginning of the next KGE. Every Kani wants to be King because, for
one, he will pass on some of his attributes to the next generation. In
addition, he will receive the opportunity to win over one of the newly
generated Kani, aka his offspring. 

Official Website: [https://kani.world](https://kani.world)
