docs/gameplay/pve.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Player vs. Environment
parent: Gameplay
grand_parent: Documentation
---
# Player vs. Environment (PvE)

## PvE - common
There are 2 forms of common PvE, a challenge event and a random event. The base
mechanics for the creature generation are the same for both events. The battle
mechanics are basically the same as any Kani vs Kani battle.

Every encounter spawns a new random creature. Each creature has a power,
wrestle, stamina, appeal, and speed stat similar to a Kani, but these stats
scale with the difficulty of the creature. The base (level 1) creature will
have a random (power, wrestle, stamina, appeal) stat between 5-10, and a speed
stat between 1-15. All of the base stats then increase for each level of
difficulty. A level 2 creature has twice the power of a level 1 creature, while
a level 3 has three times as much power. 

The PvE rewards are based on the power, wrestle, and stamina of the creature.
The higher the roll on the main battle stats, the harder the creature will be
and therefore, the more scum as a result of beating them. As the difficulty of
the creature increases so does the base battle stats(power, wrestle, stamina),
providing more rewards for the winner. In addition, the appeal of the attacking
Kani also increases the amount of scum the player will get as a reward. 

Launching an attack will cost you 10 scum, so make sure you choose an
appropriate strength for your opponent.

### Reward Calculation Example
A basic monster with stats `(P = 5, W = 10, S = 5)` is created and beaten by a
Kani with `(P = ?, W = ?, S = ?, A = 10)`. The reward will be monster stat
value `(5 + 10 + 5) + Kani appeal (10)` giving a reward of 30 scum.

Commit message:

Add info on random events

docs/gameplay/pve.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Player vs. Environment
parent: Gameplay
grand_parent: Documentation
---
# Player vs. Environment (PvE)
There are 2 forms of common PvE, a challenge event and a random event. The base
mechanics for the creature generation are the same for both events. The battle
mechanics are basically the same as any Kani vs Kani battle.

Every encounter spawns a new random creature. Each creature has a power,
wrestle, stamina, appeal, and speed stat similar to a Kani, but these stats
scale with the difficulty of the creature. The base (level 1) creature will
have a random (power, wrestle, stamina, appeal) stat between 5-10, and a speed
stat between 1-15. All of the base stats then increase for each level of
difficulty. A level 2 creature has twice the power of a level 1 creature, while
a level 3 has three times as much power. 

The PvE rewards are based on the power, wrestle, and stamina of the creature.
The higher the roll on the main battle stats, the harder the creature will be
and therefore, the more scum as a result of beating them. As the difficulty of
the creature increases so does the base battle stats(power, wrestle, stamina),
providing more rewards for the winner. In addition, the appeal of the attacking
Kani also increases the amount of scum the player will get as a reward. 

Launching an attack will cost you 10 scum, so make sure you choose an
appropriate strength for your opponent.

### Reward Calculation Example
A basic monster with stats `(P = 5, W = 10, S = 5)` is created and beaten by a
Kani with `(P = ?, W = ?, S = ?, A = 10)`. The reward will be monster stat
value `(5 + 10 + 5) + Kani appeal (10)` giving a reward of 30 scum. 

## PvE Challenge
You can use the [`?pve`](/docs/commands/#pve) command to challenge a randomly
generated monster. Like the [`?scavenge`](/docs/commands/#scavenge) command
from the previous step, this command is on a 10 hour cooldown. The creatures
have similar stats to a Kani and rewards are generated based on the enemy's
stats and the attackers [appeal](/glossary/#appeal) value. As your Kani gets
stronger you can challenge higher difficulties by adding a number after the
command (e.g. `?pve 3`). This increases the difficulty and the reward.

It will cost you 10 scum to mount the attack, so make sure you don't make the
difficulty to high as you may lose to the monster.

## Random PvE
Every 90 minutes an exploring Kani is chosen at random to fight a randomly
generated monster. If the Kani wins the attack then blocks will be added to
their explore time. However, if they lose then blocks will be subtracted from
their explore time.
