docs/gameplay/pvp.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Player vs. Player
parent: Gameplay
grand_parent: Documentation
---
# Player vs. Player (PvP)
You can use the [`?pvp`](/docs/commands/#pvp) command to challenge another
player's rumbler kani. Like the [`?scavenge`](/docs/commands/#scavenge) and
[`?pve`](/docs/commands/#pve) commands from the previous steps, this command is
on a 10 hour cooldown. If the player has less than 50 scum, you will not get
any reward. If the player has more than 50 scum you will get a base amount plus
a percentage of the total (if you win the battle). If the attacked player has
no Kani at home defending their stash and more than 50 scum, you will be free
to raid the scum stash.

It will cost you 10 scum to mount the attack, so make sure you choose a player
that you have a reasonable chance of beating. You can use the
[`?whobuff`](/docs/commands/#whobuff) and [`?lb`](/docs/commands/#lb) commands
to see which players have a similar or weaker rumbler and are sitting on a nice
big pile of scum.

## Battle Points
Battle points are a way to track who is the most successful player in PvP
encounters. Every PvP encounter awards battle points for both the winner and
the loser. Winning a PvP rewards 3 points while losing gives 1 point. 

## Monthly PVP Tournaments
The battle points are used for a monthly PvP tournament in which the top 10
places are awarded KC and the top player wins an NFT. These tournaments start
and end with the full moon KGE, about every 4 weeks. Rewards for the top 10
players are as follows: 
- 30 tokens to the top player 
- 25 tokens to places 2 and 3 
- 20 tokens to 4th to 6th 
- 15 tokens to 7th to 10th

Commit message:

Add info on random events

docs/gameplay/pvp.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Player vs. Player
parent: Gameplay
grand_parent: Documentation
---
# Player vs. Player (PvP)

## PvP Challenge
You can use the [`?pvp`](/docs/commands/#pvp) command to challenge another
player's rumbler kani. Like the [`?scavenge`](/docs/commands/#scavenge) and
[`?pve`](/docs/commands/#pve) commands from the previous steps, this command is
on a 10 hour cooldown. If the player has less than 50 scum, you will not get
any reward. If the player has more than 50 scum you will get a base amount plus
a percentage of the total (if you win the battle). If the attacked player has
no Kani at home defending their stash and more than 50 scum, you will be free
to raid the scum stash.

It will cost you 10 scum to mount the attack, so make sure you choose a player
that you have a reasonable chance of beating. You can use the
[`?whobuff`](/docs/commands/#whobuff) and [`?lb`](/docs/commands/#lb) commands
to see which players have a similar or weaker rumbler and are sitting on a nice
big pile of scum.

## Random PvP
Every 90 minutes two random explorers are selected to battle each other. The
victor will have blocks added to their explore time at the expense of the
opponent. Occasionally a long lost Kani will be found when this happens the
gained block count can be very large so if your explorer won the battle be sure
to recall them soon.

## Battle Points
Battle points are a way to track who is the most successful player in PvP
encounters. Every PvP encounter awards battle points for both the winner and
the loser. Winning a PvP rewards 3 points while losing gives 1 point. 

## Monthly PVP Tournaments
The battle points are used for a monthly PvP tournament in which the top 10
places are awarded KC and the top player wins an NFT. These tournaments start
and end with the full moon KGE, about every 4 weeks. Rewards for the top 10
players are as follows: 
- 30 tokens to the top player 
- 25 tokens to places 2 and 3 
- 20 tokens to 4th to 6th 
- 15 tokens to 7th to 10th
